# Account Management

## ADJoin.yaml
**Description** - configures hosts to join BYU's Active Directory and sets proper sudo permissions

**Default host group** - new

Notes:
* The default host group `new` isn't automatically generated by the `getHosts.sh` script. However, it can be manually added with chosen hosts.
* Only works with Debian and Ubuntu machines
* To bind a server to the domain run the command `ansible-playbook --ask-pass --ask-become-pass ADJoin.yaml -u **admin**`
    * SSH password: admin ssh password
    * BECOME password: hit enter to default to the ssh password
    * AD username: your AD username and password
    * If everything worked the computer will be bound to the domain

## changePassword.yaml
**Description** - changes the password for a user on all specified hosts

**Default host group** - temp

Notes:
* The default host group `temp` isn't automatically generated by the `getHosts.sh` script. However, it can be manually added with chosen hosts.

## deleteUser.yaml
**Description** - removes a user from all specified hosts

**Default host group** - temp

Notes:
* The default host group `temp` isn't automatically generated by the `getHosts.sh` script. However, it can be manually added with chosen hosts.

## newUser.yaml
**Description** - adds a new local user to all specified hosts

**Default host group** - temp

Notes:
* The default host group `temp` isn't automatically generated by the `getHosts.sh` script. However, it can be manually added with chosen hosts.
* This was originally used to create the lseng admin user
